Title: 边坡稳定性简介
Summary: 英语课演讲稿.
Date: 2017-06-01 06:48

# 边坡稳定性简介

## 影响因素

1. 岩土性质与类型

1. 地表水与地下水

1. 工程荷载

## 加固方法

1. 挡土墙

1. 抗滑桩

1. 锚固

# The Introduction of Slope Stability

## Specific purpose

To show my audience about the factors of slope stability and methods to reinforce a slope.

## Central ideas

The slope stability mainly depend on the property of ground, surface and underground water, and engineering loading. The methods to reinforce slope includes retaining wall, slide-resistant pile and anchoring.

## Introduction

Side slopes can cause lots of engineering problems, thus analyzing slope ability is an important task. Because of the complicated structure of soil, the difficulties of analyzing are quite a lot. 

During this speech, I'd like to talk about slope stability from mainly two aspects: influencing factors and reinforcement methods.

## Body

### Influencing factors

The influencing factors of slope stability are mainly from three aspects: The property of ground, surface and underground water, and engineering load.

#### The property of ground

The property of ground is the most important factor of slope stability. Slopes can be divided mainly into two kinds: rock slopes and soil slopes. Rock slopes, if made up from hard rocks, such as granite, can form steep hills. However, soil slopes, such as loess slopes, will be affected by moisture obviously.

#### Surface and underground water

Water may cause enormous effects on slide slopes. Lots of landslides are caused by the effect of water. Permeable slope will bear the force from underground, while the watertight slope will bear the force from surface. Water will also erosion slope, causing more problems.

#### Engineering loading

With more and more human activities, engineering also expand all over the world. During engineering, slope cutting and load on slope will cause huge effects on slope.

### Methods to reinforce

The landslide may be caused by multiple reasons, so the methods to reinforce slope may also be a very huge topic. Here I'd like to show two methods: retaining wall and slide-resistant pile.

#### Retaining wall

Retaining walls are widely used in highway engineering, railway engineering and hydraulic engineering. Retaining wall can protect structure from extra soil pressure effectively.

#### Slide-resistant pile

Slide-resistant pile can pass on the force from surface to stable rock underground, thus it can reduce the risk of landslide. Slide-resistant piles have many different structures, such as anchoring and reinforcement concrete.

## Conclusion

Slope stability is quite a huge project. Today I show you from the factors and methods, and hope I can bring some new ideas to you.

## Bibliography

[1]张东,朱文骏,华锦耀. 边坡挡土墙与锚拉式抗滑桩施工技术[J]. 浙江建筑,2009,(01):49-53.

[2]吴帅,陈高鹏,吴月磊,玄超. 边坡加固及其稳定性分析综述[J]. 四川水泥,2016,(06):297.

[3]王浩. 边坡稳定性影响因素及评价方法[J]. 黑龙江交通科技,2011,(07):110-111.

# Speech

Hello everyone. Today I'll show you some ideas about slope stability.

Firstly, we have to know what is a slope. I think, all of you are top students, so I promise you didn't drop the first lesson of this course. But in case of your business, I'll introduce it a little. Here, we can see a slope. And here, another. Wow, unluckily, it's not an enjoyable photo. It is a landslide. So, we can see, slopes can be dangerous, especially when you refuse his love and hurt him.

Just as all the things, slopes can be dangerous, also can be mild. So, there comes to such a question: what cause the instability of slope.

Here is a photo of Sanxia. We can see a steep slope, but it is safe. Here is another photo, from loess slope. We can see, it's gentle, but it's still bearing soil erosion. The differency between the two slopes is the property of ground, so we get our first solution.

Here is a photo of a permeable slope, water may cause buoancy. Here's anothor photo of a waterproof slope, water may cause pressure. From the two photos, we know, water may cause huge effects on slope. Then, we get the second solution.

Here is a photo of slope cutting, and here is another photo of slope loading. We can see, human activities may also cause huge effects on slope stability. Thus, we get our third solution. 

Now we know the causes of slope instability, so it comes to another question: how to prevent the danger?

Here is a series of photos. What can we see? Walls, just walls, or we can call it retaining wall. Retaining walls can protect other structures.

Here is a typical soil slope. As a soil slope, we know, it is usually unstable. But usually, an area will have a rock base, and the rock is stable. So what can we do? Certainly we can combine the two parts together, by piles, or we can call it slide-resistance pile. It can reduce the risk of landslide.

To be honest, there're so many ways to avoid landslide, but due to the 4 minutes' limitation, I'm sorry to say so little. You can contect me after the speech, and I'm glad to share with you.

Thank you.





















